It was really fascinating experience
because I could feel myself getting more
and more pissed off.
>> [laughter]
>> I'm Wesley Morris and this is Cannonball
today.
>> I got the magic stick.
>> It's right.
Uh obsession.
>> I wish Nikki loved me more than love me
more than anyone in the entire world.
>> It is the sleeper movie of the year.
It's been out for like a month now and
the phenomenon of it is as much a thing
as the movie itself. This thing cost
almost nothing to make and so far it's
made more than $200 million around the
world. Most of it Most of it coming from
North American money. The premise is
pretty straightforward but also pretty
American which is part of the point.
>> ever actually like flirted with Nikki?
>> I'm going to go get some chips.
>> I'll come with you.
>> If she means [music] this much to you
and I know she does
say, [music] "Nikki, I think we should
grab a drink sometime."
>> A guy makes a wish from a toy magic
stick for a girl he's got a crush on at
his job and the wish is for her to love
him more than she loves anybody else.
And you know what? She does. Real hard.
>> A love only the branch of a willow tree
could conjure.
>> Like she won't let him out of her sight
or near another person and every time he
tries to leave the house because
suddenly she's there all the time, she
weeps or screams or pees herself.
You know, I'm not I'm laughing but I'M
NOT LAUGHING.
>> [laughter]
>> UH
THAT IS THE HORROR of this film. A woman
is cursed to be enslaved to a boy who
just couldn't bring himself to tell her
that he's caught feelings for her.
The movie, I mean, it's more interesting
than it is satisfying as filmmaking or
storytelling, but in its way, it's also
a good time.
>> I was calling to see if there's a way I
can cancel a wish.
>> I'm sorry, we don't really do that.
>> So, she's just stuck with this forever?
>> Oh, yeah. I mean, as long as you live.
>> As long as I live?
>> And, you know, the writer and director
is a guy named Kogonada Barker. He
started out on YouTube, and he's got a
background in sketch [music] comedy.
And I just read somewhere that he got an
eight-figure offer for his next movie.
Sight unseen, there's no script, there's
no nothing. He just He didn't have to
pitch it because he just He just got it
like that right now, and he's only 26. I
would actually put the average age of my
seatmates, a mostly sold-out show on a
Wednesday afternoon, even younger than
Kogonada Barker.
I'd say it about the 11th grade. I
actually felt like [laughter]
I felt like I was chaperoning a school
trip.
And the screaming and the mass cringing,
it it just kind of made the movie mean
more as an experience. And afterward, I
was honestly I was like deeply touched
by the sight of my fellow moviegoers
clogging the bathroom entrance cuz you
know they do that.
But they were talking about what a blast
some of them had just had and and who
the villain is in this thing and how
messed up it is what happens to this
woman. Her name is Nikki, by the way.
>> I think Nikki is going through
something.
>> [music]
>> Like what? Is she okay?
>> No.
>> And it's it's not just that people are
connecting to obsession. It sounded to
me like they were
arguing over the relationships and who's
good and bad. I loved that. But I'm also
wondering whether this thing is worth an
argument. My guest today is Angelica
Jade Bastien, a pop culture critic for
New York magazine who writes a lot about
movies and she really understands horror
as a genre and is the kind of critic who
just comes right out and says what's on
her mind. She has a lot of feelings
about Obsession's depiction of
relationships and I really just wanted
to talk through those feelings with her.
So,
here we go. And if it's not obvious
already, we are going to talk about
every nook and cranny of this movie.
Sorry.
ANGELICA JADE BASTIEN
>> [laughter]
>> WELCOME TO CANNONBALL.
>> Thank you for having me. I'm super
excited to be on the show.
>> Well, I'm really thrilled to have you
here.
I've been reading your criticism for a
long time and I'm now proud and thrilled
to be able to talk about this movie with
you. I'm curious about A what your
movie-going experience was like and what
you experienced leaving this movie.
>> Well, I saw it at the wonderful Music
Box here in Chicago.
>> Oh, wow.
>> Amazing theater, love my favorite rep
theater here and my boyfriend and I saw
Obsession opening weekend there and it
wasn't super packed. It's been
interesting to see how the film is doing
even better in its third week but the
audience was definitely game, definitely
younger than me and my boyfriend who
were both in our late 30s
and it was really fascinating experience
because I could feel myself getting more
and more pissed off.
>> [laughter]
>> And my boyfriend had a completely
different read of the movie and he
enjoyed it. I
I admittedly, I feel like as I've gotten
older, I thought misogyny pissed me off.
I thought that
seeing women's bodies used as objects
was already like annoying and galling to
me, but there's something about entering
an era as a woman
in which you're hyper aware that people
do not value you. And I've just noticed
I'm like far more sensitive to misogyny,
which I think everybody should be.
>> Right. Sure.
>> And so watching the movie, it is very
aware of the conversations we're having
around young people and younger
generations and how they function in
relationships and how certain
not great dynamics in dating have been
supercharged and heightened by online
dating and just how we relate to each
other in the modern time.
And so there's that track with regards
to like incels and male entitlement.
>> Mhm.
>> But I found it a very incurious movie.
And for me, the tell is the women, both
the character Nikki
and the character Sarah and how they're
treated and the way their bodies are
used, shot, and negotiated with within
the narrative itself.
>> So let's talk about Nikki and Sarah and
just how they are functioning in the in
the sort of formal universe of this
movie.
>> Mhm.
>> You know, when the movie starts, we are
watching the main character, his name is
Baron. Everybody calls him Bear. And he
has a crush on his coworker, Nikki, his
old high school classmate.
And makes this wish. The wish is I
I wish Nikki loved me more than anybody
in the whole [__] world is the wish.
>> Mhm.
>> Um the wish comes true and there's
Sarah, who is his other high school
classmate. They all work together at
this music shop store that Sarah's
father owns. And Sarah has a crush on
Baron, Bear. And so what you've got is a
woman one woman, Sarah, who has a crush
on this guy, and another woman who has
been sort of
essentially enslaved to him.
>> Yeah, it's very interesting watching the
movie because something kept rattling in
the back of my head that I think only I
clarified for myself recently in writing
notes and really thinking through the
movie again.
>> Mhm.
>> As someone [clears throat] who's
actually diagnosed with borderline
personality disorder, I think sometimes
this movie feels like a caricature of
the BPD crazy girlfriend that every man
is apparently so afraid of. And the
version of love that Bear desires
is similar to the version of love I
think a lot of men, not just young men,
but men in general have been sold, which
is they their version of love is to have
a woman
who is
easily manipulated, always is open to
what they need and their desires, but
has little desires of her own. She's
less a sentient being than a vehicle for
care.
>> Yes, yes, yes.
>> And there's a few moments that I think
are so, so telling. Thinking about who
the movie is most curious about and
where characters fall into complete
caricature.
>> Right. Talk to me about one of those.
Like what's one?
>> One for me that really jumps out is the
sequence involving Sarah and her death.
So, Bear is in the car with Sarah. He
has now sneaked out of his home and him
and Sarah having a conversation about
Nikki. And you know, Sarah says, "I
think you deserve someone more chill."
And he's like, "Like you?" And soon
after that, you You
>> the window of the car, the driver side
window.
>> Somebody's coming.
>> Somebody's coming and which is very
obvious, the filmmaking language is
similar to the kind of scene you would
expect before like a car is crashed.
>> Angelica, hold up though. Hold up
though. I mean, I got to give it to
Curry Barker here because even though I
understand the film language, it's
really just about how fast you talk,
right? And
she came out of nowhere as far as I'm
concerned. I'm saying you can see
through the through the driver side
window, but you can't really see through
the driver side window. Like
she just
Nikki's just there and like it's not
just that she's there, she has broken
the window with a brick,
positioned the brick on the steering
wheel, has grabbed Sarah's head and is
banging the head into the brick she's
holding on the steering wheel.
I was that's the only time I jumped one
time in this movie and it was a legit
jump scare. Anyway, go on.
>> Poor poor Sarah, crushing on the wrong
man. Been there.
>> [laughter]
>> We all been there, lady.
>> And so soon after you see a brief but
notable shot of Sarah's body, obviously
her bludgeoned caved-in face, and she's
completely naked and her legs are
spread. You can tell though she's
>> shot. It's a porny shot.
>> porny shot and it's just so jarring
>> Mhm.
>> especially as things are continuing to
escalate to their conclusion. And it's a
shot that doesn't need to be in the
movie. Like what is it actually adding
to the story?
>> it actually adding in general? I mean,
like what
>> Provo- [laughter]
you know, to be provocative. A lot of
times during this movie
I could just feel the energy of wow,
isn't that crazy? Man, that's
[clears throat] crazy. That's wild. The
movie doesn't go deeper than that. It's
trying to provoke you.
>> That's the vibe. That's the vibe. That's
the vibe.
>> For me, it is a stunning example of how
useful women's bodies are as an object,
but women selves aren't as subjects. It
is just a tell. To me, it's a tell about
where the movie's sympathies and
interests actually lie. And there's an
interesting, actually a lot of
interesting things happening leading up
to this moment where Sarah's texting
Bear at night, and he has to slip out of
bed, and he has an interesting exchange
with real Nikki.
>> Oh, this is a I mean, this is a like
crucial moment to me.
>> Basically,
um before the Sarah car scene,
Bear is slipping out of bed trying not
to wake Nikki up, and Nikki's body is
asleep, but the real Nikki is able to
speak.
>> Yeah, we should just say I I'm I'm just
going to say that it's clear to us that
whatever this wish is has kind of
encased Nikki within it. And
occasionally, on two occasions before
this moment in the that we're about to
talk about, Nikki has snapped out of of
of the of the encasement, and she
doesn't know what's going on. It's like
she's suddenly like in a room that she
doesn't understand why she's in. And
then the the wish sort of takes back
over.
>> Mhm.
>> And so now here we are. Bear's about to
sneak off and like talk to Sarah about
this new Sarah needs him to know. And
Nikki is still in bed asleep, but she
wakes up and says, "Hey Bear,
>> kill me, please."
>> Yes.
>> She's begging to die. And their exchange
is really interesting cuz
she
points something out
when after he says, "What would be so
bad? What's so bad about being with me?"
Your response to woman Okay, Bear.
But what she says after, [laughter] I
think is really telling. "I've never
been with you, Bear." Right. The movie
is obviously aware that what Bear is
doing is is horrifying. And what Nikki
is experiencing is one of the most stark
examples of a woman's autonomy being
stolen from her. It's interesting cuz I
interpreted it as
Nikki herself is aware of what's going
on in there.
>> Mhm. Yes. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah.
>> But she can't do anything, and she
continues to beg for him to kill her
while he slinks into the shadows. And
then you have the next scene with Sarah.
And so the movie wants to do two things.
It wants to acknowledge the horror Nikki
is in without developing her
interiority,
but it also wants to frame Bear as
really put upon by this situation. So
it's It's trying to create a a
a sympathy for him. That's why I think
it gets stuck in the morass of crazy
girlfriend territory rather than where
the real horror is.
>> But I mean, I think
that what's I I mean,
there's something fascinating to me
about the encasement
situation. You know, the fact that this
woman is trapped inside this fantasy.
And what I thought about as you're
laying this out is
the sunken place.
>> Right.
>> Oh, this movie is so aware of Get Out. I
mean,
>> [music]
>> Pretty explicitly. Pretty explicit.
>> Quite explicitly, I would say. But this
is in my opinion a failure as a horror
movie because
I don't even think it creates good
tension or scares in that regard.
>> Yeah, I think that one of the I think
there's a really fascinating scene that
kind of gets at
both the tension and lack of tension in
this movie, and it makes it really
surprising choice.
>> Mhm.
>> One of the where Baron's for our
purposes best friend is a guy named Ian
and
>> Yes.
>> Um is having this party. Everybody's
coming over to Ian's house to hang out
one night. And Nikki, you know, it's not
like
The interesting thing to me is like
Nikki doesn't have a The wish doesn't
have a setting for being in public with
other people.
Nikki is her full self the way she is
with Baron at this party.
>> Mhm.
>> But what's interesting is that at some
point during this scene,
she stands up and she's extremely
uncomfortable.
Um she's She makes everyone else
uncomfortable because she's so
>> [snorts]
>> intense. And she stands up and she reads
She She does what seems like a recital
of something. She claims it's a story
she's working on, but it's very explicit
um
>> I I would call it Hansel and Gretel [__]
fiction.
>> Han- Han- Yes, it's a it's an incest
story between Hansel and Gretel. Right,
right, right.
>> Yeah, and there's like a part uh where
she says like as, you know, the Gretel
character that even if they don't like
have actual sex, that she will take some
of his flesh, roll it up, and put it
inside of her. He's going to be inside
of her somehow. And of course, everyone
around her at this party is like, "Okay,
no, some What is going on? What is
this?" She's already, you know, laughing
in a way that feels like very extra.
And everybody is so un- uncomfortable
looking at her, looking at Bear, and
trying to figure out like, "What is What
What is this?" This has like completely
[clears throat]
changed the vibes of the party
basically. The vibes become very rancid.
>> This is the thing. I mean, I I find this
scene fascinating for a number of
reasons. One, you know, ordinarily in a
movie like this, you would no one else
would know what's happening here. It
would be Baron telling everybody else
what's happening and no one else
witnessing what's happening, right?
>> Exactly.
>> So, everybody is witnessing this thing
and it now is repositioning
Baron's ethics, right? Because now there
are people who are like, "Dude,
something needs to be done for this
person. She's suffering. She's clearly
not well."
>> Which Ian at one point in the movie does
>> the people.
>> I know. Does voice like, "Hey, it seems
like you're kind of taking advantage of
her. Like something she's not acting
like herself. Something is obviously
up." What's interesting to me is that
the movie doesn't continue that thread
of like people being worried about her
to the point where I'm like, "Y'all
ain't really friends." And apparently
she has no one around her that she talks
to on a regular basis that would be able
to clock like
>> Nikki's missing.
>> You know, who is this person? Who is
this person? We need to hospitalize her
because she's having some sort of
psychotic break because she's not acting
like herself on on a very base level.
And I find it interesting the movie
doesn't want to continue that thread.
But again, that would
call the movie to have curiosity about
Nikki and who else she's connected to.
As far as we know with this movie, these
people only really know each other. And
then that's they don't really seem to
have lives and relationships outside of
this like tight friend group who, you
know, they're so close and do trivia
together, um
I guess.
>> Yeah, I mean, I think that this is the
reason to talk about this movie to me is
that
it is
This is a movie that doesn't quite
understand relationships beyond a
certain developmental point, right?
>> Yeah.
>> think that the the the developmental
point is graduation. I think there's a
there's a there's an imagination barrier
about what any kind of committed adult
love is. This really is speaking to a
person who's between the ages of 15 and
22.
>> Mhm.
>> And what it's offering them is a
worst-case relationship scenario.
Um I mean, you've seen the data. We're
doing a lot less of stuff we used to do,
like
>> Like sex?
>> [__] [__] [__] marry.
>> [laughter]
>> [__] marry, have friends, leave your
house, talk to people. I I honestly I'm
really I'm really worried about younger
generations. Immediately, I do bristle
at how we discuss generational divides.
I think they can be useful on like a
broad level to talk about like, you
know, changes we're seeing, but I think
people
>> of like
taxonomizing us according to like Gen
Alpha, Gen Z.
>> Yeah, exactly.
Millennials, you know.
>> sure.
>> I I find it interesting how essentialist
the conversations become about
generations. As if we're like locked
into the same taste, the same
experiences. We have overlaps amongst,
you know, within a generation, but we're
still all human beings existing in the
same world and spaces. And while I do
think there are some interesting
differences that we can see between how
generations relate to each other, I
think part of
what's influencing some of these
differences is
I didn't grow up, you didn't grow up
having to worry about social media and
your own branding and persona as
reflected online.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> I am so thankful I got to be
the weirdest, you know, metalhead goth
before
social media. I was I was a wild one in
that regard. And there's no visual
evidence.
>> [laughter]
>> Uh
But I think, you know, the one thing I
will say that I do witness
in younger generations, including, you
know, I I'm friends with people who
classify as Gen Z,
is sometimes this like
this value towards being an introvert
who's bed-rotting and not connecting
with other human beings. This movie
doesn't seem to want to or have the
capability and curiosity to get more
into how a person like Bear develops,
like why a bear exists, why he looks at
women that way. And so, I think because
that character psychology is just not
there, it fails at its aims and just you
know what, just to put it bluntly, it
just pissed me the [__] off. I was just
like, y'all, like I am right now, you
can't see it on camera, but I am wearing
a T-shirt for one of my favorite horror
movies, Tales from the Crypt: Demon
Knight, directed by the great Ernest
Dickerson, who was a cinematographer for
Spike Lee for a long time on films like
Malcolm X.
>> And
to me that exemplifies, you know, one
strain of horror I really love. And this
is a movie that has like gnarly gross
effects, it has Billy Zane playing an
insane demon hunting down a relic.
>> I know you ain't going to kill me. You
have my word. I mean, frankly, we've
been counting on you, haven't we?
>> But there's such a strong sense of who
these characters are,
>> Mhm.
>> their psychology, what they desire, I
don't really know
about these people and obsession.
>> But I think that the sort of social
horror of this
it kind of needs
the generic
traits that we're getting from all these
characters. They need to be more types
in order for us to have this
conversation. Because we're not talking
about people,
>> No.
>> right? Like what we're talking about is
is behaviors that correspond to our
understanding of how they function in
the real world.
>> Exactly.
>> And the problem with the movie in some
ways, and this is kind of where I'd like
to go next, is that this is not really a
movie about people, right? This is a
movie about This is a movie by a person
who has seen people not in real life,
but in the movies.
>> Exactly. Exactly.
>> All of its reference are, you know,
adult thrillers. I mean, Mulholland
Drive is a thing I thought about while I
watched this. Um
you know, we talked about Get Out. I
think that, you know, there's a lot of,
you know, J-horror, Japanese horror
movies that, you know, are visually
uh referenced. You know, there's a
moment where she's like kind of skitters
across the bedroom with a with a flower
vase in front of her face. It's much
more interested in in movie
history vibes. This is a movie to me
that could be put in
a number of different classes of
subgenre of of movie making. And I think
one of the things that's interesting to
me is it's not completely
at home in any of these in on any of
these shelves. So, let's just start with
one. There's three that I'm going to
bring to you, and then, you know,
whatever comes up for you, we can talk
about.
>> Sounds good.
>> Um
I'm going to start with the blank from
hell.
The blank from hell genre, you know, it
I'm going to say it's high watermark is
Fatal Attraction. Uh essentially the
blank from hell is
um
someone finds themselves in some kind of
relationship with a an extreme person.
Like a person who's just gone so far off
the deep end uh because they're in love,
because they're horny, because they're
ambitious.
Or, you know, the blanket catchall for a
blank from hell is that they're just
crazy somehow. Um they're being driven
by some some some inner insanity.
Um we're talking about Fatal Attraction,
of course, I mentioned that. Uh The Hand
That Rocks the Cradle.
Um Misery, Basic Instinct. Um that cat
>> Female.
>> Single White Female.
Um so, let's talk about the things that,
you know, make this a blank from hell
movie, right? I mean, or the things that
the blank from hells that it's borrowing
from. You know, Bear's got a cat and
obsession.
The cat dies.
>> Very early on.
>> How does this cat die in the Does this
death make any sense to you?
>> No, apparently the cat is able to open
pill bottles.
>> food and pill bottles.
>> And I was just like, okay. And then, you
know, Nikki has made Bear lunch. He's at
work. He's eating the sandwich and it
dawns on him, he's eating some sautéed
version of his cat. And he ate several
bites.
>> He ate like half that sandwich.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, she made him cat pate.
And
uh it was, you know, he is disgusted by
it, but we should say this is like the
movie is basically taking two Michael
Douglas movies, two Michael Douglas
blank from hell movies. Fatal
Attraction, Glenn Close, you know,
iconically
boils the bunny or she, you know, we
don't see her actually do anything, but
we the the brilliance of the of that
sequence in Fatal Attraction is the
rabbit's missing, the daughter finds
that the rabbit is not in its pen, and
Anne Archer, the wife in the film, goes
and lifts the boiling pot that she
slowly walks toward in the kitchen. You
can see it off in the distance in the
long shot. She picks up the pot. Oh my
god, there's a the the bunny's been
boiled.
>> [screaming]
>> The bunny's
>> And the other the the cat pate
is as far as I'm concerned from Michael
Douglas and Kathleen Turner in War of
the Roses.
>> Nobody who makes pate this good can be
all bad.
>> That depends
on what the pate is made of.
>> Mhm.
>> Where the dog is missing and maybe it's
dinner now.
>> Woof.
>> And in that movie the that's a that's a
marriage from hell movie, right? Where
>> Very much so.
>> This relationship that you recognize is
now sort of something you fear.
>> Exactly.
It is fascinating
to use the cat in that way cuz I think
it sort of hearkens to the fact that the
movie is more interested in provocation
and comedy than like actual horror and
psychology, even though there's so much
rich terrain to be tilled in this movie
that just doesn't get that happening.
>> Related, in my notebook the first time I
watched it, um
I did write
is she the cat?
Like has the spirit of this cat, I mean
there's so much like it's not quite
animism. I mean I just some of her
behavior is
>> animalistic, primal.
>> Right, right.
>> I think that speaks to how horror films
look at women more so than
maybe that being
>> of animism.
>> Yeah, exactly. I think
>> core will often argue, and maybe this is
actually just true of culture at large,
that argues like women are closer to
nature, which means they're closer to
some primalness, which means they're
closer to being insane. And I think
there's some strains of that in this
movie.
Although the movie doesn't seem fully
aware of what it trips into, but that's
true of a lot of things. [laughter]
>> Okay. All right, next category
uh that obsession, you know, is is aware
of, but, you know, again, doesn't
quite
fulfill, right? Like it it's a but but
there's a there's enough going on here
that you're forced to think about it.
And it's the boy makes wish.
Right? There's a whole genre of movies
in which a boy,
you know, wishes for something and the
wish comes true. I'm thinking about
weird science.
>> Ooh. [laughter]
>> You know, it's not quite it's a little
bit more than a wish, but it's
essentially a wish.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
Big, right? I mean, this is
>> Oh, that movie is actually disturbing.
>> It's disturbing. I mean, because it like
think about it but often it involves I'm
going to say boy makes wish and the wish
in some way ensnares or explicitly
involves a woman, right? So, I think the
thing that you're finding creepy about
Big, I don't want to speak for you, but
is it Elizabeth Perkins' relationship to
to to Tom Hanks
being a 13-year-old boy?
>> It I I'm sorry. If I had had
>> doesn't know. She does not know. She
doesn't know. She doesn't know. She
doesn't know.
>> She has no idea until I guess, if I'm
remembering the ending correct, when he
like transforms like back to kid.
>> I I'm I'm sorry. If I like learn I I
think I would have to jump off a bridge.
I [laughter] I think I'd be like, well,
this was a good run. I tried.
Let's Let's start again. Let's Let's try
that one more time.
>> Classic classic 80s working woman. It
never goes right for them. I mean, you
know, Fatal Attraction.
>> [laughter]
>> From Fatal Attraction to Big, which is
really just one year a one year leap,
but I'm just
just saying. Um yeah, I think the the
boy makes wish
is interesting because it often does
involve Sex is somewhere in the picture.
>> Oh, baby, it always is, isn't [laughter]
it?
>> All right. Um the next the our next our
next shelf here is a man controls woman.
Now,
>> [laughter]
>> man controls woman's body, woman's life,
woman's mind. Um he has some control
over the woman that that she
doesn't either understand or or
understands but is told is not. That's
your This is not true. And so, I mean, I
would begin by going all the way back to
Gaslight.
>> If I could only get inside that brain of
yours and understand what makes you do
these crazy twisted things.
>> Gregory, are you trying to tell me I'm
insane?
>> Oh, I was of course going to reference
that movie, so I'm so glad you brought
up I'm guessing the 1944 version with
Ingrid Bergman.
>> Oh, the yes. Charles Boyer telling
Ingrid Bergman that like, no, these
these these gas lamps are not trying to
poison you.
>> Paula,
I hope you're not starting to imagine
things again.
You're not, are you, Paula?
>> Of course I'm not.
>> And I hope you are not.
>> You're fine. There's this It's your
imagination. But she's convinced that
this is what is happening. And he's
like, "Ma'am, you are incorrect. This is
not what is happening. I love you. I
would never try to kill you."
>> [laughter]
>> That very, very French man. It's It's
fascinating, actually, to think about
the genre of, you know,
women controlled by men who are like
gaslighting them or keeping them in the
dark about their like how controlled
they are. You know, there's science
fiction examples like Ex Machina from
2014, obviously.
>> Ava.
Go back to your room.
>> If I do,
are you ever going to let me out?
>> I was going to go up to Hold on.
Passengers.
>> Aurora, I don't want to LOSE YOU.
>> I DON'T CARE! [screaming]
I DON'T CARE WHAT YOU WANT!
I DON'T CARE WHY YOU WOKE ME UP!
YOU TOOK MY LIFE!
>> OH, WOW. YEAH. But I wanted to point out
just briefly the trend in the 1940s and
1950s of Bluebeard movies in which
>> Oh.
>> you know, women were gaslit, controlled,
and
slowly thinking they were losing their
minds because of how terrible things
are. And Bluebeard is by far one of my
favorite fairy tales. I'm like a huge,
huge fan of Angela Carter's retelling
The Bloody Chamber. But like watching
this movie, I was thinking like,
>> lay out the plot for me, please?
>> Sure.
Uh So, Bluebeard is a fairy tale about a
very young woman who gets married to an
incredibly rich older man who has a blue
beard and is known as Bluebeard. And
part of his reputation is that he has a
trail of dead wives behind him. Mhm. And
so she moves into his grand estate and
he's like, "Here are the keys to my
kingdom, but there is one key and one
door you cannot use."
And so of course her curiosity about the
man who is in her bed, who she has bound
her life to, leads her to open that door
and see all the bodies of his dead
wives.
>> Mhm.
>> And of course he discovers what he feels
like is a boundary cross of her
learning who he really is and he almost
kills her, but she's saved by her family
and it takes different shapes. I think
the way Angela Carter does it is very
moving because it's a mother-daughter
story
uh
more than anything. And so the way
classic Hollywood did it
in the women's picture genre was
to show in different settings, sometimes
modern, sometimes not
how women
>> ones are a trip though because
>> are and I'm talking about movies like
you know, My Name Is Julia Ross,
Suspicion, Sleep, My Love
>> you know, these films demonstrate a very
real fear
that the most dangerous person in your
life as a woman is the man in your bed.
>> Yep. Yep. I mean, yes.
>> And so it's fascinating to think of
these movies in relation to obsession
because obsession is really showing a
fear that these men have made up of like
the crazy girlfriend who's going to
destroy your life and how the cost of
loving a woman like that is to have your
life completely cratered. But the fear
that the women are dealing with in these
Bluebeard movies are representing a
very real real dynamic in life, which is
that for as far as we come we've come
with technology and culture and how we
discuss things, we are still witnessing
such high rates of femicide that it's
it's honestly scary to date as a woman.
>> Mhm.
>> Men are afraid that women will undermine
them or talk over them. Women are afraid
that they will die if they go on a date.
It's why you text your friends, "Hey
girl, I'm going to be here with this
person at this time. If you don't hear
from me, you know, please like
>> I am. Yep.
>> you know, please check you know, check
on some things. And it's fascinating to
me that horror as a genre
doesn't return to those fears from the
women's perspective cuz that's why like
watching Obsession all I kept thinking
was man, I need someone to do this movie
but from Nikki's perspective or even
from a female friend's perspective.
You're watching your friend lose
herself.
>> But what's interesting about Obsession
is I would have loved to have seen even
with everybody being as superficial as
they are in this film. I would have
loved to for there have to have been an
a line that goes more intimately from
Nikki to Sara.
>> Yeah.
>> But they are immediately received as
adversarial. They are adversaries the
entire
movie in some way. They're not friends.
>> They're not.
>> And and this man has sort of been
positioned between them and he's a pole
around which they they sort of operate.
>> Exactly. It's it's also interesting.
Sara has information that Bear didn't
have.
>> Right. Right.
>> Which includes
>> she has to die. I mean, in the genre in
the blank from hell genre, she's got to
die cuz she knows things.
>> Exactly. And one of the things the group
knows that Bear doesn't know is that Ian
and Nikki had some sort of sexual
relationship going on. And and it's
interesting that Nikki's feeling actual
real feelings towards Bear which is
probably more like, you know, "Oh,
you're my friend. I care about you but I
have no romantic feelings. It's
something that's not communicated by
Nikki at any point before obviously this
transformation possession, but it's
something that's put in the mouth of
other characters. And there's something
fascinating about that because it means
we have no real read on how she feels
feels about him.
>> Well, it's interesting that you put this
this way because there is that moment
where before he breaks the willow that
becomes the wish,
she's sitting there outside the car and
she's she asks him, "Do you like me?
You can tell me. Now is the moment to
tell me cuz I am moving away. Do you
like me or not?" And he's like, "Uh, I
don't know. I'm good. I think we're
We're already friends."
>> I think we're friends.
I'm [laughter] so sad. I'm bare and I'm
just so nice and I deserve everything I
want and the only thing I really want is
her.
>> Right. But But interestingly, he can't
use his words to I mean, you just said
more than he ever does.
>> Yeah.
>> And I think, you know, the cheating to
get it brings up a whole other sort of
it's not even a movie genre bucket. It's
sort of the This is the part where like
real life kind of bleeds into this into
the zone because that that
you know, make a wish
>> [laughter]
>> that make a wish toy
to me is is the cheat that feels
generational to me, which is, you know,
he can't say what he wants, so he just
wishes the cosmos. I mean, I'm going to
say the cosmos to make it happen. And I
thought the whole time I watched this
movie about AI.
I thought about the ways in which you
can tell Claude, ask Claude, make
Claude. And what I'm really interested
in is like the this
these shortcuts, right?
These the like letting someone else do
the work for you.
>> Mhm.
>> And that being part of the way life is
experienced, right? Like this is an
enhancement, this wish situation. But I
mean, the movie, I think the cautionary
dimension of this film is really about
directness in some ways. Um the whole
sticking point of the movie is Barry
can't declare anything. He can't
articulate what he wants to the person
from whom he wants it. Um the opening
scene is him giving this huge like John
Cusack level say anything style hold the
boombox over your head speech, but he's
giving it to a waitress at a restaurant
who doesn't know him. And I mean, you
know, if I'm giving the movie credit for
something, it is for concluding that
this guy probably would have been better
off just taking the risk and saying
giving them speech that open opens the
movie, finding some way to give that to
Nikki.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah.
>> And you know, making Curry Barker, the
director of this film, a lot less
wealthy at this point because you'd had
a short film and not this, you know, 100
minute
box office behemoth.
>> Yeah. I think we're in a moment where
people are very hungry for connection. I
think people are very lonely and we are
seeing it definitely in younger
generations acutely,
but they don't want to take the risk of
showing themselves to someone.
You can't expect someone if you don't
want to show them all of you. And so
it's less that people seem to want a
true embodied loving relationship so
much as the most pleasing mirror of the
to themselves. It's almost like
people are looking for their self-worth
and who they really are in the eyes of
another and they can't risk showing the
truth of themselves because that's too
painful.
>> Well, I mean, think about that opening
sequence, right? Like, you know, we're
watching the way it's the way it's
framed is that Bear is looking, you
know, just past the camera, but at
someone on the other side of this diner
table.
And we don't know who it is.
Um
and he is, you know, again, saying, you
know, I'm coming apart. I'm falling
apart. I'm not right. Um, you know, you
we we, you know, I can we can say now
that it's Nikki. You are the person who
was nicest to me when I came back home
after presumably being away at college.
Um and I would choose you over
everybody. And when when he's done the
speech and we get the reverse shot of
the person he's talking to and it's the
waitress at the diner. Um, there's a
conversation among the three of them,
the waitress, Ian, the friend, and Bear
about how disgusting what he just said
was, right? The two boys are nauseated.
Oh my god, THAT WAS SO GROSS, DUDE. I
JUST WAS SO VULNERABLE right now and
I couldn't say that to her. Nikki would
hate that.
And the waitress is like,
I don't know, give her some flowers.
>> [laughter]
>> Which I was like, yeah. Yeah, like, but
like, if you want someone to love you,
baby, you got to be vulnerable. Like,
what kind of relationship are people
expecting?
>> But this is this is where I think we
are. I think this is I mean, it's funny
because I don't know if you're watching,
you know, Euphoria just ended.
>> Mhm.
>> There's the second season of Beef.
Um, which I don't know if you've watched
any of, but basically, I'll sum it up
for you.
>> Please do.
>> There there's a young couple played by
um
Cailee Spaeny and um
uh
Charles Melton.
>> And
they're kind of cos playing adult
relationship, right? A lot of it is like
these expectations of what they've heard
a man and a woman who are going to be
married are supposed to do
and um
there's a real you know and you you
relationships on Euphoria are you know
inherently cataclysmic. They they're
they're not they're completely
combustible.
And you know the friendships aren't even
real on that show.
Um as it turns out. And so I just I
don't know we're at a really interesting
moment where
I think we're looking for guidance about
how to be the person who gives the
speech that opens obsession. Right? Like
how does that not cost us something if
we do it? And I mean I'm going to just
take what you said and be like it it it
shouldn't it's going to cost you
something. It might you might have to
hear a no.
>> Ooh wow a no. This is why people are
turning to like AI chatbots and stuff to
create partners. And it's both men and
women and it's been fascinating
to watch. I think sometimes we focus a
lot on like
how men are dealing you know with the
loneliness and everything but I'm like
the women are just as feral in making
their own sort of mistakes that I think
are closing off the possibility to not
only you know love another person but to
also be a full human being on your own.
You need connection and community and
love to me is the reason why we're
alive. And it makes me And it makes me
sad to see so many people so yearning
for connection but so afraid of doing
the work to get it or to touch it.
And I think we're seeing you know
these
sort of fake versions of relationships.
I think in a lot of ways part of this is
I think as a country we've never really
reckoned with COVID and what that
lockdown has done to us.
>> Oh, yeah, this is a great place to pick
up things.
>> that's definitely affecting, you know,
someone who would be Bear's age, right?
Because you're having these essential
years of your life taken from you when
you really need to be connecting with
people and figuring out what you like
and who you are. I think it has made
people very disconnected from each other
and themselves and very disjointed from
the reality that a loving relationship
calls for, both with yourself, with your
community,
and with potential partners. Really what
I'm saying is, can y'all go outside,
talk to your neighbors,
volunteer? Because if you don't, if you
don't open yourself up to these risks,
what are your 30s, 40s, 50s, 60s, and
all going to look like?
>> This is what I was going to ask about
Curry Barker. Like, I mean, I mean, I'm
curious about what his career turns
into. And I I don't know, I'm just
curious to see what maturity looks like
for him both as an artist and as a
human.
Um, because there's really a struggle
here. There's really a a real tension
between what it means to evolve into the
adult phase of how you relate to people
and the, you know, high school phase of
how you relate to people. And, you know,
he hasn't actually lived that life yet.
And there are some people who are really
good at imagining it, but I think that
he, I don't know, if he hasn't seen it
in a movie, then it doesn't seem like it
happened.
>> Yeah, I think horror has a lot of
possibilities now to tap into the very
real fears people are dealing with in a
way that other genres can't, but it does
call for a curiosity about the
psychology of the characters and also a
curiosity about how the world works.
>> Artistry, too. Some kind of artistry.
Some kind of artistry. Even a grubby
artistry. Not this not a received like
second-hand
>> Exactly.
>> pastiche filmmaking.
>> Yeah, there's something very inert about
this movie and a lot of horror movies
today. But, you know, maybe this kind of
goes to something I have been thinking
about. Too many of these
writer-directors are not writers. They
need to put down the pen and call a
friend. Y'all are not Billy Wilder.
Please, stop.
>> [laughter]
>> Angelica Jade Bastien,
thank you uh thank you for doing this. I
really appreciate it.
>> Oh, this was wonderful. This was so
wonderful. Thank you for having me on.
>> [music]
>> Of course.